INSTALLING AND COMPILING THE S2KIT INTERFACE FOR MATLAB AND YAWTB
=================================================================

Introduction:
=============

S2kit, is a lite version of SpharmonicKit.
	

SpharmonicKit is a collection of routines, written in C, which
implement discrete Legendre and spherical harmonic transforms by a
number of different algorithms. For certain algorithms, code for the
inverse transform is also provided. Included as well are routines for
spherical convolutions.

The Legendre transforms in the Kit require that a function of
bandwidth B be sampled on the 2B-many Chebyshev points and not the
B-many Gaussian points. Therefore, the number of samples needed is
twice the function's bandwidth. This implies that for the spherical
transforms in the Kit, a function of bandwidth B is sampled on the
equiangular 2Bx2B grid on the sphere.

Some of the algorithms implemented in this package are based on the
work of Driscoll and Healy.

More information about S2kit and SpharmonicKit are available here:
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/sphere/


Requirements:
=============

The S2kit Matlab interface is only working with Matlab 7.0 (and
later), i.e. Matlab R14, since S2kit requires the FFTW V3.0 library
linked to Matlab from version 7.

If you are running Matlab 7.0 under linux, be careful to read recent
special issues regarding to GCC 3.2/GLIBC Matlab compatibility. You
can find more information on

http://www.mathworks.com/support/solutions/data/1-OQSVI.html?solution=1-OQSVI	



Procedure:
==========

0°) Make sure that FFTW V3 is installed on your computer. For more
information: 
	http://www.fftw.org

1°) Download the S2kit (a lite version of SpharmonicKit) v1.0 at 
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/sphere/
and in particular at the link
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/sphere/s2kit10.tar.gz

2°) Uncompress it somewhere, say in /tmp. This will create a directory
called /tmp/s2kit10 containing all the SpharmonicKit stuff.

3°) Go inside this last directory, read the README file to know how to
configure S2kit (for instance, it has to know where to find FFTW3
libraries), and compile it. That is
	$> cd /tmp/s2kit10
	$> make
where '$>' stands for the shell prompt.



4°) Return in the directory containing this INSTALL file 
(that you are currently reading ;), say
	<yawtb>/continuous/sphere/s2kit 
and modify the file 'Makefile' as follow:
  at the top, you find a variable called SKDIR (for S2kit Directory). 
  Set it correspondingly to you SpharmonicKit directory, 
  that is in our example
	  SKDIR = /tmp/s2kit10

5°) in <yawtb>/continuous/sphere/s2kit/, type just
	make
    This will compile all the mex file related to this SK interface.

6°) That's it. Now you can go into a matlab session and test the different 
demo by entering:
	>> yademo s2fst
	>> yademo s2ifst
	>> yademo ilmshape

where '>>' stands for the matlab prompt.

7°) Enjoy of it and feel free to report any bugs/comments/wishes to
the Yawtb mailing list.


The YAWTB team.




	