INSTALLING AND COMPILING THE SOFT INTERFACE FOR MATLAB AND YAWTB
=================================================================

Introduction:
=============

"snipped from [1]:"

SOFT is a collection of C routines which compute the discrete Fourier
transform of a function defined on SO(3), the group of orthogonal
matrices of determinant 1, i.e. the Rotation Group. (So SOFT equals
``SO(3) Fourier Transforms.") The routines in this collection are
based on the ``Separation of Variables'' technique (e.g. see the paper
by D. Maslen and D. Rockmore below).

Both forward (spatial to spectral) and inverse (spectral to spatial)
Fourier transform routines are provided, as well as examples of how
they may be used, e.g. pattern matching on the sphere via
correlation. The transforms within the package assume a power-of-2
bandwidth.


A subset of SpharmonicKit, necessary for some of the included examples
(correlation; rotating functions defined on the sphere), is also
included within SOFT, as is a document explaining the contents of the
distribution. For the curious, the document itself may be downloaded
separately here. There is also a preprint available which offers a
detailed theoretical development and description of the algorithms
implemented in SOFT, as well as numerical and timing results, and some
discussion of applications.


Finally, variations of some routines are provided which use the more
efficient FFTW collection (version 3, to be precise), and not our
home-grown code, to perform the requisite Cooley-Tukey FFTs.


SOFT is free software and is distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public License.

...

More information about SOFT, SpharmonicKit and S2KIT are available
here:
	[1] http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/soft/
	[2] http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/sphere/

Requirements:
=============

The SOFT Matlab interface is only working with Matlab 7.0 (and
later), i.e. Matlab R14, since SOFT requires the FFTW V3.0 library
linked to Matlab from version 7.

If you are running Matlab 7.0 under linux, be careful to read recent
special issues regarding to GCC 3.2/GLIBC Matlab compatibility. You
can find more information on

http://www.mathworks.com/support/solutions/data/1-OQSVI.html?solution=1-OQSVI	



Procedure:
==========

0°) Make sure that FFTW V3 is installed on your computer. For more
information: 
	http://www.fftw.org

1°) Download the SOFT v1.0 at 
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/soft/
and in particular one of the link
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/soft/soft-1.0.tar.gz
	http://www.cs.dartmouth.edu/~geelong/soft/soft10.zip

2°) Uncompress it somewhere, say in /tmp. This will create a directory
called /tmp/soft-1.0 containing all the SOFT stuff.

3°) Go inside this last directory, read the README file to know how to
configure SOFT (for instance, it has to know where to find FFTW3
libraries), and compile it. That is
	$> cd /tmp/soft-1.0
	$> make all
where '$>' stands for the shell prompt.



4°) Return in the directory containing this INSTALL file 
(that you are currently reading ;), say
	<yawtb>/continuous/sphere/soft 
and modify the file 'Makefile' as follow:
  at the top, you find a variable called SOFTDIR (for SOFT Directory). 
  Set it correspondingly to you SOFT directory, 
  that is in our example
	SOFTDIR = /tmp/soft-1.0

5°) in <yawtb>/continuous/sphere/soft/, type just
	make
    This will compile all the mex file related to this SOFT interface.

6°) That's it. Now you can go into a matlab session and test the different 
demo by entering:
	>> yademo softcorr

where '>>' stands for the matlab prompt.

7°) Enjoy of it and feel free to report any bugs/comments/wishes to
the Yawtb mailing list.


The YAWTB team.




	